---
description: Monaco Protocol Terms Of Service
---

# Terms of Service

Last Updated: 24 October 2023

Please read these terms carefully and keep a copy of them for your reference. Please also note that there may be specific terms or conditions applicable to you as a user in a given jurisdiction, as detailed below. Please refer to our Privacy Notice, for information about how we collect, use, share and otherwise process information about you.

Agreement to Terms. These Terms of Service (“Terms”) are a binding contract between you, an individual user or site visitor, whether personally or on behalf of an entity (“user,” “you,” “your”) and the Monaco Protocol Foundation, a Gibraltar Foundation (the “Foundation,” “we,” “us” or “our”), concerning use of the Foundation’s services (the “Service”), including the[ www.monacoprotocol.xyz](http://www.monacoprotocol.xyz) website as well as any other media form, media channel, or mobile website related, linked, or otherwise connected thereto (collectively, the “Site”). BY ACCESSING OR USING THE SERVICE, YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, PLEASE DO NOT USE THE SERVICE OR SITE.

Scope of Service. Currently, the Foundation maintains and operates the Site as a portal for news, information, and updates about the Monaco Protocol and its ecosystem. For the avoidance of doubt, the Foundation does not control the Monaco Protocol and cannot control activity and data on the Monaco Protocol, the activities of persons who develop and use applications on the Monaco Protocol, the validation of transactions on the Monaco Protocol, or use of the Monaco Protocol. The Monaco Protocol is a permissionless, open-source protocol deployed on the Solana Network (see [www.solana.com](http://www.solana.com/)) and is dependent on the Solana Network and its validators to process transactions on the blockchain.

Changes to these Terms or the Service. We may update the Terms from time to time in our sole discretion. If we do, we’ll let you know by posting the updated Terms on the Site, and/or may also send other communications. It’s important that you review the Terms whenever we update them, or you use the Service. If you continue to use the Service after we have posted updated Terms, it means that you accept and agree to the changes. If you don’t agree to be bound by the changes, you may not use the Service anymore. Because our Service are evolving over time, we may change or discontinue all or any part of the Service, at any time and without notice, at our sole discretion.

Who May Use the Service? The information provided on the Site is not intended for distribution to or use by any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject us to any registration requirement within such jurisdiction or country. Accordingly, those persons who choose to access the Site from other locations do so on their own initiative and are solely responsible for compliance with local laws, if and to the extent local laws are applicable. The Service is intended for users who are at least 18 years old. You agree that by using the Site and the Service you are at least 18 years of age or accessing the Service under the supervision of a parent or guardian, and you are legally able to enter into a contract. If you are a parent or legal guardian of a user under the age of 18 (or the age of legal majority), you agree to be fully responsible for the acts or omissions of such user in relation to the Service. If you use the Service on behalf of another person or entity, (a) all references to “you” throughout the Terms will include that person or entity, (b) you represent that you are authorized to accept these Terms on that person’s or entity’s behalf, and (c) in the event you or the person or entity violates these Terms, the person or entity agrees to be responsible to us.

Scope of License to Users. The Service is licensed, not sold, to you for use only under the terms of the Terms, subject to your complete and ongoing compliance with the terms and conditions of the Terms. The Foundation hereby grants you a personal, limited, revocable, non-transferable license to access and use the Service solely for your own use. You may not modify, alter, reproduce, or distribute the Service. You may not directly rent, lease, lend, sell, redistribute or sublicense the Service. You may not copy, decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble, attempt to derive the source code of, modify, or create derivative works of any portion of the Service, any updates, or any part thereof (except as and only to the extent any foregoing restriction is prohibited by applicable law), nor attempt to disable or circumvent any security or other technological measure designed to protect the Service or any content available through the Service. If you breach these license restrictions, or otherwise exceed the scope of the licenses granted in the Terms, then you may be subject to prosecution and damages, as well as liability for infringement of intellectual property rights, and denial of access to the Service.

Termination. We may suspend or terminate your access to and use of the Service, at our sole discretion, at any time and without notice to you. Upon any termination, discontinuation or cancellation of the Service, any section of these Terms capable or intended by their nature to survive, will survive. If we terminate or suspend your access to the Site for any reason, you are prohibited from attempting to access the Site under your name, a fake or borrowed name, or the name of any third party, even if you may be acting on behalf of the third party. In addition to terminating or suspending your access, we reserve the right to take appropriate legal action, including without limitation pursuing civil, criminal, and injunctive redress.

Prohibited Activities. You may not access or use the Service for any purpose other than that for which we make the Service available. The Service may not be used in connection with any commercial endeavors except those that are specifically endorsed or approved by us. As a user of the Service, you agree not to:

1. Systematically retrieve data or other content from the Service to create or compile, directly or indirectly, a collection, compilation, database, or directory without written permission from us.
2. Make any unauthorized use of the Service, including collecting usernames and/or email addresses of users by electronic or other means for the purpose of sending unsolicited email, or creating user accounts by automated means or under false pretenses.
3. Circumvent, disable, or otherwise interfere with security-related features of the Service, including features that prevent or restrict the use or copying of any content or enforce limitations on the use of the Service and/or the content contained therein.
4. Engage in unauthorized framing of or linking to the Site.
5. Trick, defraud, or mislead us and other users, especially in any attempt to learn sensitive account information such as user passwords.
6. Make improper use of our support services or submit false reports of abuse or misconduct.
7. Engage in any automated use of the system, such as using scripts to send comments or messages, or using any data mining, robots, or similar data gathering and extraction tools.
8. Interfere with, disrupt, or create an undue burden on the Site or the networks or services connected to the Site.
9. Attempt to impersonate another user or person.
10. Use any information obtained from the Site in order to harass, abuse, or harm another person.
11. Use the Service as part of any effort to compete with us or otherwise use the Service and/or the content for any revenue-generating endeavor or commercial enterprise.
12. Decipher, decompile, disassemble, or reverse engineer any of the software comprising or in any way making up a part of the Site.
13. Harass, annoy, intimidate, or threaten any of our employees or agents engaged in providing any portion of the Service to you.
14. Attempt to bypass any measures of the Site designed to prevent or restrict access to the Site, or any portion of the Site.
15. Delete the copyright or other proprietary rights notice from any content.
16. Copy or adapt the Site’s software, including but not limited to Flash, PHP, HTML, JavaScript, or other code.
17. Upload or transmit (or attempt to upload or to transmit) viruses, Trojan horses, or other material, including excessive use of capital letters and spamming (continuous posting of repetitive text), that interferes with any party’s uninterrupted use and enjoyment of the Service or modifies, impairs, disrupts, alters, or interferes with the use, features, functions, operation, or maintenance of the Service.
18. Upload or transmit (or attempt to upload or to transmit) any material that acts as a passive or active information collection or transmission mechanism, including without limitation, clear graphics interchange formats (“gifs”), 1×1 pixels, web bugs, cookies, or other similar devices (sometimes referred to as “spyware” or “passive collection mechanisms” or “pcms”).
19. Except as may be the result of standard search engine or Internet browser usage, use, launch, develop, or distribute any automated system, including without limitation, any spider, robot, cheat utility, scraper, or offline reader that accesses the Site, or using or launching any unauthorized script or other software.
20. Disparage, tarnish, distribute hate speech/explicit content or otherwise harm, in our opinion, us, the Service and/or other users of the Service.
21. Copy, reproduce, distribute, publicly perform or publicly display all or portions of our Service, except as expressly permitted by us or our licensors.
22. Modify our Service, remove any proprietary rights notices or markings, or otherwise make any derivative works based upon our Service.
23. Infringe any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright or other intellectual or proprietary right of the Foundation or any third party.
24. Use the Service in a manner inconsistent with any applicable laws or regulations.

Intellectual Property. The Foundation and its licensors exclusively own all right, title and interest in and to the Service and the Site, including all associated intellectual property rights. You acknowledge that the Service and the Site are protected by copyright, trademark, and other laws of the United States and foreign countries. You agree not to remove, alter or obscure any copyright, trademark, service mark or other proprietary rights notices incorporated in or accompanying the Service or Site. “Monaco”, “Monaco Protocol” and our logos, our product or service names, our slogans and the look and feel of the Service are trademarks and/or copyrights of the Foundation and may not be copied, imitated or used, in whole or in part, without our prior written permission, which may be obtained by emailing hello@monacoprotocol.xyz. All other trademarks, registered trademarks, product names and company names or logos mentioned on the Service are the property of their respective owners. Reference to any products, services, processes or other information by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, supplier or otherwise does not constitute or imply endorsement, sponsorship or recommendation by us.

Dispute Resolution. We each agree that any dispute, claim or controversy arising out of or relating to these Terms or the breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation or validity thereof or the use of the Service (collectively, “Disputes”) will be resolved solely by binding, individual arbitration and not in a class, representative or consolidated action or proceeding. You and the Foundation agree that the U.S. Federal Arbitration Act governs the interpretation and enforcement of these Terms, and that you and the Foundation are each waiving the right to a trial by jury or to participate in a class action. This arbitration provision shall survive termination of these Terms.

Exceptions. As limited exceptions to the clause immediately above: (i) we both may seek to resolve a Dispute in small claims court if it qualifies; and (ii) we each retain the right to seek injunctive or other equitable relief from a court to prevent (or enjoin) the infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights.

Conducting Arbitration and Arbitration Rules. The arbitration will be conducted by the JAMS pursuant to its rules then in effect, except as modified by these Terms. Disputes involving claims and counterclaims under $250,000, not inclusive of attorneys’ fees and interest, shall be subject to JAMS’s most current version of the Streamlined Arbitration Rules. All other claims shall be subject to JAMS’s most current version of the Comprehensive Arbitration Rules and Procedures (collectively, the “JAMS Rules”). The JAMS rules are available at www.jamsadr.com (under the Rules/Clauses tab) or by calling JAMS at 800-352-5267. Payment of all filing, administration, and arbitration fees will be governed by the JAMS rules, including JAMS’ Consumer Arbitration Minimum Standards. A party who wishes to start arbitration must submit a written Demand for Arbitration to JAMS and give notice to the other party as specified in the JAMS Rules. Any arbitration hearings will take place in the county (or parish) where you live unless we both agree to a different location. The parties agree that the arbitrator shall have exclusive authority to decide all issues relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability and scope of this arbitration agreement.

Arbitration Costs. Payment of all filing, administration and arbitrator fees will be governed by the JAMS Rules, including JAMS’ Consumer Arbitration Minimum Standards, as applicable, and we won’t seek to recover the administration and arbitrator fees we are responsible for paying, unless the arbitrator finds your Dispute frivolous. If we prevail in arbitration, we’ll pay all our attorneys’ fees and costs and won’t seek to recover them from you. If you prevail in arbitration, you will be entitled to an award of attorneys’ fees and expenses to the extent provided under applicable law.

Injunctive and Declaratory Relief. Except as provided in the Exceptions subsection above, the arbitrator will determine all issues of liability on the merits of any claim asserted by either party and may award declaratory or injunctive relief only in favor of the individual party seeking relief and only to the extent necessary to provide relief warranted by that party’s individual claim. To the extent that you or we prevail on a claim and seek public injunctive relief (that is, injunctive relief that has the primary purpose and effect of prohibiting unlawful acts that threaten future injury to the public), the entitlement to and extent of such relief must be litigated in a civil court of competent jurisdiction and not in arbitration. The parties agree that litigation of any issues of public injunctive relief shall be stayed pending the outcome of the merits of any individual claims in arbitration.

Class Action Waiver. YOU AND THE FOUNDATION AGREE THAT EACH MAY BRING CLAIMS AGAINST THE OTHER ONLY IN YOUR OR ITS INDIVIDUAL CAPACITY, AND NOT AS A PLAINTIFF OR CLASS MEMBER IN ANY PURPORTED CLASS OR REPRESENTATIVE PROCEEDING. Further, if the parties’ Dispute is resolved through arbitration, the arbitrator may not consolidate another person’s claims with your claims and may not otherwise preside over any form of a representative or class proceeding. If this specific provision is found to be unenforceable, then the entirety of this Dispute Resolution section shall be null and void.

Severability. Except for any of the provisions of the Class Action Waiver subsection above, if an arbitrator or court of competent jurisdiction decides that any part of these Terms is invalid or unenforceable, the other parts of these Terms will still apply.

Governing Law and Venue. Any dispute arising from these Terms and your use of the Service will be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of Gibraltar. Any dispute between the parties that is not subject to arbitration will be resolved in Gibraltar.

Disclaimer. THE SITE AND SERVICE IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS-IS” AND “AS-AVAILABLE” BASIS. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE FOUNDATION WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OF ANY KIND ARISING FROM THE USE OF THE SITE OR SERVICE, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. YOU AGREE THAT YOUR USE OF THE SITE AND SERVICE WILL BE AT YOUR SOLE RISK. THE FOUNDATION IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR LOSSES THAT RESULT FROM YOUR USE OF THE SERVICE, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SERVICE; ANY CHANGES TO OR INACCESSIBILITY OR TERMINATION OF THE SERVICE; ANY DELAY, FAILURE, UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO, OR ALTERATION OF ANY TRANSMISSION OR DATA; ANY TRANSACTION OR AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO THROUGH THE SERVICE; ANY ACTIVITIES OR COMMUNICATIONS OF THIRD PARTIES; OR ANY DATA OR MATERIAL FROM A THIRD PERSON ACCESSED ON OR THROUGH THE SERVICE. WE MAKE NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS ABOUT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE SITE’S CONTENT OR THE CONTENT OF ANY WEBSITES LINKED TO THE SITE AND WE WILL ASSUME NO LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY (1) ERRORS, MISTAKES, OR INACCURACIES OF CONTENT AND MATERIALS, (2) PERSONAL INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE, OF ANY NATURE WHATSOEVER, RESULTING FROM YOUR ACCESS TO AND USE OF THE SITE OR SERVICE, (3) ANY UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO OR USE OF OUR SECURE SERVERS AND/OR ANY AND ALL PERSONAL INFORMATION AND/OR FINANCIAL INFORMATION STORED THEREIN, (4) ANY INTERRUPTION OR CESSATION OF TRANSMISSION TO OR FROM THE SITE, (5) ANY BUGS, VIRUSES, TROJAN HORSES, OR THE LIKE WHICH MAY BE TRANSMITTED TO OR THROUGH THE SITE BY ANY THIRD PARTY, AND/OR (6) ANY ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN ANY CONTENT AND MATERIALS OR FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE OF ANY KIND INCURRED AS A RESULT OF THE USE OF ANY CONTENT POSTED, TRANSMITTED, OR OTHERWISE MADE AVAILABLE VIA THE SITE.

IF YOU ARE DISSATISFIED WITH THE SERVICE, YOU AGREE THAT YOUR SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY SHALL BE FOR YOU TO DISCONTINUE YOUR USE OF THE SERVICE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION AND EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

Links to Third Party Websites, Services or Resources. The Foundation may link to products and services offered by third parties through the Service. These third-party products and services are not offered by the Foundation and the Foundation is not responsible for any damages or losses that you might incur as a result of your use or purchase of these products and services.

Indemnity. You will indemnify and hold the Foundation and its officers, directors, employees and agents, harmless from and against any claims, disputes, demands, liabilities, damages, losses, and costs and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable legal and accounting fees arising out of or in any way connected with (a) your access to or use of the Service or (b) your violation of these Terms.

Miscellaneous. These Terms and any policies or operating rules posted by us on the Site or in respect to the Service constitute the entire agreement and understanding between you and us. Our failure to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms shall not operate as a waiver of such right or provision. These Terms operates to the fullest extent permissible by law. We may assign any or all of our rights and obligations to others at any time. We shall not be responsible or liable for any loss, damage, delay, or failure to act caused by any cause beyond our reasonable control. If any provision or part of a provision of these Terms is determined to be unlawful, void, or unenforceable, that provision or part of the provision is deemed severable from these Terms and does not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining provisions. There is no joint venture, partnership, employment or agency relationship created between you and us as a result of these Terms or use of the Service. You agree that these Terms will not be construed against us by virtue of having drafted them. You hereby waive any and all defenses you may have based on the electronic form of these Terms and the lack of signing by the parties hereto to execute these Terms.

Contact Us. To resolve a complaint regarding the Site or to receive further information regarding use of the Service, please contact us at: hello@monacoprotocol.xyz

\
